[END PLAYBACK]
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
And now, so therefore, again, this motivation is so important.
And motivation is really the turning point.
Motivation is like just the key point, key point.
And therefore, this kind of igniting all the goodness
thought and goodness intention always
is so important because that is not just important.
It's self is practice.
That is heart of the practices, essence of the practices.
And we're talking about the hundo, the beginner preparations
or the foundation practices.
What's it?
In the always teaching said, bring more joy, more appreciation,
more kindness, compare your thoughts for all the living
beings, more bodhic than that thought.
Also reflecting all this kind of situation and circumstances,
no more preciousness, more kind of happy,
more appreciative of these things.
And the same kind where we are, what we are,
is also not this permanent, it's this kind of reflecting
truly as it is where things are and kind of softening
our grasping and clinging.
Because grasping and clinging is regimented, is diluted.
It is not natural.
And there's a hindrance, obstacles,
order to kind of like pre-that.
Again, we have to use the same remedy and the thought
as like homopedic things.
That mind created things, we have
to use the mind's techniques.
Love and kind is a comparison.
It's the homopedic, in a way, techniques
to remove the ego and all this negative emotion, which
is created by the mind itself.
So therefore, all this teaching said
how much important in the teaching at the foundation.
And then also principle body of the practice,
again, maintaining the same, that motivation,
the mundo of the foundation practices,
but then more strong, more kind of continually,
of keeping that flame, that fire.
And that is known as then the main part of the body
practices.
And then the result will be that as we started the foundation,
as we continue to maintain, when you discover that,
is then the result in achievement.
Then, all that.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
And so therefore, this cause and condition
looks like so sometimes insignificant.
But however, the cause and condition is so important.
Even the smallest things can bring a huge, big result,
whether that is negative, whether that is positive.
So therefore, being as the practitioners,
we're trying to really learn more kind of positive things
and trying to also avoid even the smallest negative actions.
And that is then good for us, good for the others,
and good for our continued growth of the practice,
or practice, or the dharma.
And for those reasons in the Buddha's teaching said,
for example, like six parametas, when
we do generous practices, of course, generous practice
is so important, so special.
Everybody knows that.
But generous practice also brings
more abundance of luxuries in the teaching system,
when you do the generous practices.
And then, when we do the morality practice,
the ethic practices, it will bring more always joy,
happiness, happiness, and particularly in the future,
in the future lives.
For example, generous practice make more reach.
And the morality practice, we make
us to take bone in higher realms, always.
And the patient tolerance practices,
it makes ourselves more--
also in the future, it makes more beautiful.
Or in the future lives, it makes physical very beautiful,
the morality, the patient practices.
And the joy of our practices will
make kind of very dominating in the future lives,
in the teaching set.
It will bring more dominating, more kind
of powerful persons, that.
And then the concentration practice also
will bring in future result, as like very calm and peaceful,
more kind of peaceful state of mind.
And then wisdom will bring always wisdom, intelligence,
to our heart, mind, or the Buddhahood, finally.
And of course, all of that finally brings the Buddhahood.
So all the achievement--
so those are the teaching often said.
And therefore, again, we're trying to kind of do as much
as we can do those six part of mental practices.
Or even the smallest, the minimum kind of goodness activity
that we do.
And then we could also really harp in the joy each time
when we're able to do kind of--
igniting that joy and appreciation
at the same time, kind of like sit, in a way,
kind of like sit forward, that may I
be able to do this even more in a future kind of way,
inspiring one's own self, moving continuing the path
and progress.
And that is really known as the practicing the dharma.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
And therefore, always be thoughtful is very important.
Thoughtful and start with the small, minimum.
We're not going to looking always the big gigantic things
immediately.
But even the minimum, the smallest
is the relief foundation.
From there, everything started.
And therefore, kind of very thoughtful,
do the even smallest good activity that adds up
and that build up that.
And we're not going to wait for big things.
And big things that we can do, that's great.
But do what we can do with joy, with appreciation.
And those are always in the teaching
said, which is very practical way.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]